<!-- ![](./Watson%20Natural%20Language%20Understanding.md_files/IDSNlogo.png){width="200"
height="200"} -->

Hands-on Lab: Watson Natural Language Understanding (10 min)
============================================================

Exploring Watson Natural Language Understanding
-----------------------------------------------

Objective for Exercise:

-   Learn how to use Watson Natural Language Understanding to analyze a
    piece of text, and a site specified by URL.

IBM provides an online demo of Watson Natural Language Understanding
at:[Natural Language
Understanding](https://www.ibm.com/demos/live/natural-language-understanding/self-service)

Use the following steps to explore the demo:

1.  Access the online demo here:[Natural Language
    Understanding](https://www.ibm.com/demos/live/natural-language-understanding/self-service)
    
2.  Click on Proceed to Demo    

3.  Under the **SAMPLE INDUSTRY DOMAINS** heading, read
    the text given in the **Text** box, and then click **Analyze Text**.

4.  What is the overall sentiment of this piece of text?

4.  Click **Emotion**, **Entities**, **Categories**, and **Concepts** to
    answer the following questions:

5.  What is the prevalent emotion? Are there any other prevalent
    emotions?

6.  What are the entities that Watson Natural Language Understanding has
    identified?

7.  What categories are identified?

8.  What concepts are listed?

9.  Under the **TRY YOUR OWN** content heading, click
    **URL**.

10. Copy the URL and open the page in a new tab. What type of content is
    this?

11. On the **Natural Language Understanding** tab, click **Analyze URL**.

12. What is the overall sentiment of this piece of text?

13. Click Emotion, Keywords, Categories, and Concepts to answer the
    following questions:

14. What is the prevalent emotion? Are there any other prevalent
    emotions?

15. What are the first 3 keywords that Watson Natural Language
    Understanding has identified?

16. What categories are identified?

17. What concepts are listed?

**Optional:**

Click on the Input Text and paste the following text into the Text box:

"Morehouse College, the private, all-male, historically black college in
Atlanta that counts Martin Luther King among its alumni, expects its
attendees to aspire to greatness. Soon, many in the graduating class of
2019 can start doing so, no matter the cost.

Tech billionaire Robert Smith\'s surprise pledge during his commencement
speech last weekend to pay off 396 graduates\' college loan debts is a
potentially \$40-million US game changer for a generation of
African-American grads. It removes an economic millstone that might have
otherwise limited their possibilities, or at least slowed their
progress.

The Morehouse class of 2019 has been spared what might have amounted to
decades of monthly payments. Smith delivered the kind of relief that can
pay dividends for a de-stressed cohort of young professionals. Social
psychology research suggests it could inspire a positive contagion
effect, with generosity trickling downstream from past grads to new
students."

1.  Click **Analyze Text**.

2.  What is the overall sentiment of this piece of text?

3.  Can you identify the college from the **Entities listed**?

4.  Where would you look to find out what type of article this is?

**Note:**

The complete article can be read at: CBC News -[\'Like Christmas every
day\': A billionaire\'s pledge to erase this class\'s college debts
could echo for
decades](https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/billionaire-morehouse-college-pay-it-forward-student-debt-1.5142866?utm_medium=Exinfluencer&utm_source=Exinfluencer&utm_content=000026UJ&utm_term=10006555&utm_id=NA-SkillsNetwork-Channel-SkillsNetworkCoursesIBMDeveloperSkillsNetworkAI0103ENSkillsNetwork20648538-2022-01-01)

[Follow Rav
Ahuja](https://twitter.com/ravahuja?utm_medium=Exinfluencer&utm_source=Exinfluencer&utm_content=000026UJ&utm_term=10006555&utm_id=NA-SkillsNetwork-Channel-SkillsNetworkCoursesIBMDeveloperSkillsNetworkAI0103ENSkillsNetwork20648538-2022-01-01)

Author(s)
---------

[Rav
Ahuja](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ravahuja/?utm_medium=Exinfluencer&utm_source=Exinfluencer&utm_content=000026UJ&utm_term=10006555&utm_id=NA-SkillsNetwork-Channel-SkillsNetworkCoursesIBMDeveloperSkillsNetworkAI0103ENSkillsNetwork20648538-2022-01-01)

Changelog
---------

  Date         Version   Changed by   Change Description
  ------------ --------- ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------
  2020-08-27   2.0       Anamika      Migrated Lab to Markdown and added to course repo in GitLab
                                      
                                      

### Â© IBM Corporation 2020. All rights reserved. {#ibm-corporation-2020.-all-rights-reserved. align="center"}

### 
